# Parameters and Payload of an Operation

**What are the mechanisms that OpenAPI provides to specify input data?**

OpenAPI provides two mechanisms to specify input data:

* parameters

Parameters are typically used to identify a resource.

* request body

(Message payload) provides content for that resource

# The Parameters Object

**What does the [Parameter Object]() describe?**

Each [Parameter Object]() describes one parameter with the following **mandatory** fields:

* `in` (string): Location of the parameter as shown below.
* `name` (string): Case-sensitive. Must be unique in each location.

Additional optional fields include:

* `description` (string): Useful for documentation. Might contain usage examples, for instance.
* `required` (boolean): Whether this parameter **must** be present or not. The default value is `false`.

## Parameter Location

**Where can Parameters reside?**

Parameters can reside in different locations, indicated by the `in` field. The most common ones are:

* `path`: The paramete is part of the route of this operation (and hence of its URL). The parameter's name **must** appear in the path as a [template expression].

E.g.:
```yaml
paths:
  /users/{id}:
    get:
      parameters:
        - name: id
          in: path
          required: true
```

**NOTE:** When using path parameters, the `required` field **must** be present and it **must** be `true`.

* `query`: The parameter is appended to the **query string** part of the operation's URL.

E.g.: `/users?id=1234` can be parsed:

```yaml
paths:
  /users:
    get:
      parameters:
        - name: id
          in: query
```

* `header`: The paramete is sent in a custom HTTP header as part of the request. Header names are **case-insensitive**

## Parameter Type


**NOTE:** Exactly one of `schema` or `content` **must** be present. They cannot appear at the same time.

## Parameter Serialization Control

**What does the `style` field define?**

The `style` field defines how a parameter is to be serialized and its effect depends on the **type** of the parameter.

## The Request Body Object

**How is the message body of a request specified?**

The message body of a request is specified through the `requestBody` field in the [Operation Object]().

```yaml
paths:
  /board:
    put:
      requestBody:
        ...
```

**What's the only mandatory field in the [Request Body Object]()?**

The only mandatory field in the [Request Body Object]() is `content`.

